[Music]
everybody welcome to another episode of
impact theory i am here today with gary
bishop gary welcome to the show man
awesome thanks for having me dude i'm
excited i love the way that you think
about the world i love the sort of brash
uh aggression that you come at things
with the sort of no [__] approach um
so i'm very excited to dive into that
now you you have several books um the
most recent being about amazing [__]
wisdom living a life um a wise life if
you will
one thing you said that really blew me
away is this notion that we are both
the
the agent in the matrix and the rebels
as you call it are you know neo trinity
and the group
what do you mean by that to what extent
do you see that we're sort of creating
our own reality and how do we develop
the wisdom to navigate that well
yeah
so there's a there's a lot
there's a lot um
about that that that seems so uh unreal
to us when you think i create my own
reality okay
and because you know you reach out you
touch the table right it's not like
you're imagining some holograph or
something right
but but you are you are creating your
own experience of being alive and your
actions are coming very much coming from
your experiences
so when i talked about you're both the
matrix and you're the rebels
um
all of us all human beings are
constantly setting up the game
and setting up the game subconsciously
so you're setting up the game
relationships you're setting up the game
of finances you're setting up the game
your body yourself and so you're kind of
following predictable pathways
and and but you're also struggling with
some of these things
right like for instance i'll give you a
really simple example
if i'm somebody who struggled with money
and i know that saving money is really
good for me
why would i spend my last hundred bucks
at the mall and why would i do that
right
until you start to consider well maybe
what i'm doing is i'm setting up the
struggle
maybe that's the game for me
subconsciously
but if you take that same principle with
your body with your love life with your
career
see how you fundamentally relate to
yourself is very deep very profound
but you're so wrapped up in the surface
issues of your life
you can't really see what's driving at
all like how comma turned out this way
if you get so if you set aside the kind
of psychological explanations how come i
turned out this way and where in my head
and where is this going for me how does
this
keep unfolding from me
and the surprising thing for a lot of
people is
whatever you're struggling with today
until you finally understand what's
driving
you'll continue to wrestle with that
until you die
talk to me about that process so one
thing that i find really interesting in
your story is how late you came to the
game of sort of self-help um
what what was that process like for you
how do we develop the self-awareness to
have these kind of moments that you're
talking about yeah
one of one of the one of the interesting
aspects of what when people talk about
awareness these days what i feel is if
they're mostly talking about is being
aware of others
so they're talking about how others
speak and others listen and others
behave
and real awareness is is actually
starting to get aware of oneself and and
i think if you ask most people they'll
say they are pretty aware
um but you know give me 10 minutes with
them and they'll see how blind and deaf
they've been you know like they just
can't they just they aren't connected to
their own wiring in many ways you know
do you have like a series of questions
that you ask people to
to help them see that they aren't as
aware as they might think they are
yeah well you know
basically i get people usually tell me
about themselves right you'll you'll
hear
you'll hear the you'll hear and see the
blind spots everywhere they're all over
their conversations so when somebody
talks
they're in fact speaking from the world
that they're in
but
people don't
experience themselves as being in a
world
we experience ourselves as being in the
but you're not you're in a very
biased
a very kind of slanted a very kind of
weighted place in life you're you're not
interacting with life
you're interacting with you interacting
with life
and that's a very it's a very kind of
nuanced thing
and when you start to point to some of
those things with people you start to
say like well well how come this is
something that you get hooked by or how
come this is a strength of yours but
also a weakness of yours
and that's when people start to join the
dots up for themselves it's really not
about
telling people
it's really about asking the right kind
of questions and engaging in the right
kind of conversation with somebody
that you you'll watch them you'll see
people joining the dots up for
themselves like oh my gosh yeah that
that
and then
my in my view a human being starts to
really get empowered with themselves
when they start to
make sense to themselves like your own
actions your own thoughts your own
emotional states when all that starts
they can logically click for you to me
those are the beginnings of of true
awareness
so by way of example walk me through
what happened to you so i know your
brother-in-law had suggested that you go
to a self-improvement seminar of some
kind you thought it was [__] but you
ultimately end up going because he's
footing the bill um right
and you walked away sort of thinking
very differently about that and i think
it will help people to to begin to
connect those dots if they understand
sort of what some of those dots are
right using just your own story as an
example i think would be super
enlightening well it was the first it
was the first time in my life that i
ever realized i had a perspective
right did you know you were struggling
with something at that point
um
i like everybody else you know it was
like well you know it's tough to start a
business and it's tough being married
and you know all the same things that
we're all kind of like making okay in
our lives you know and sometimes it goes
too far like our you know our
relationships break down our businesses
go downer but it seemed to me like i'm
just wrestling with the same stuff as
everybody else you know
and and i'm working my title off at that
time in my life in a very specific thing
that i thought would answer a lot of
these questions that were kind of
ruminating in my life right like i
really i really did believe that one day
this was all going to turn out
right which
was one of the illusions that i had to
really confront but it was never turned
out your life would automatically become
what you wanted it to become is that
what you mean yeah yeah it would be one
day
when all of this work
i would wake up and the birds would be
singing right and that sun would be
shining and all is good in my world and
i realized that i'd never had that day
in my life like i'd i've been working
towards it i've been trying to make this
happen
but when you but you know that's
perspective is a word that gets thrown
around a lot like what is your
perspective
it's such a thin word
to deal with this really
uh kind of
voluminous thing it's just
your perspective is is in everything you
hear everything you see everything you
say everything you experience every
feeling every emotion you know
all of it that's your perspective and
it's hard to see it because you're in it
so you can't really witness it
so when i started to do work on myself
i'd and it was in a specific area
actually it was in my relationship with
my parents
which at the time in my life i would
have said was fine right it's okay you
know it's fun
but but i never realized that fine was
[__] you know
i thought flying was just fine
no one had ever said but why not amazing
and once i started to dig down in that
then i could see well because of this
and because of that because of this and
because of that
and it was the first time in my life
that i'd ever really confronted that
that was just a point of view
like my entire past
is only a perspective it's not
it's not the actuality of my past
it's the past
of the eyes and the ears of the person
who was in it
but there was a lot of people in that
past with their own eyes and ears with a
whole different take away from it than i
had
but i lived like what i took away
was now what is like the firm foundation
under my feet
so i questioned everything it was very
unsettling at the beginning they
actually questioned
what like the narrative
and i'd never questioned and i would
have like truly questioned it because
i've never seen it
because to me it was the truth
and that's the problem people spend
their adult life overcoming a truth that
they made up
dude that that to me is one of the most
important things that i've heard you
talk about is that notion that people
confuse what they have chosen to believe
with objective truth and that that sort
of becomes that first aha moment of wait
a second i'm living a collection of
beliefs that have formed a perspective
i'm living from that perspective
how do you help people see that do you
get pushback because you've talked about
how people will fight for
um their [__] i think was one of
your exact quotes like they they have
all these dysfunctional things in their
life and they're they're just utterly
committed to keeping them in a way
yeah well let me let me get shine a
little bit of light on that so
a lot of what we're
we're kind of hooked by as an adult is
from
whatever we took away from our childhood
right so in my second book i talked
about this like
what are the elements that you took away
what have you built your life upon of
all the things that you could have taken
what did you take right
and so when you question that with
somebody and somebody says you know like
my mother was controlling
okay which is a descriptive term of
things you saw
okay
when i say my mother was controlling
that's not just a phrase i'm knowing a
world
that exists now between her and i
right and in this world that i'm in with
her it's not my perspective i'm actually
watching her do things that confirm
what i've come to believe i mean i
completely ignored all the other stuff
but i want to focus on that [__] right
because this to me is the big deal
and so when i say to somebody but what
if your mom isn't controlling and they
say well she is and i say i know but
what if she's not but if you just let go
of the notion that she's controlling
well
i'm not going to let go without why
she's ruined my life i say no you've
ruined your own life and then people
start to fight for the narrative
why because they've built the life upon
it and they've told other people about
it and they've got a consensus around
them and so they've filled their life
with these people that are like yeah
your mother's controlling and you're
like yeah that's right she is and then
when i go into my relationship as an
adult this person is not going to
control me and even if that person is
controlling me or not controlling me i'm
going to point to all the ways that i
think they are
and then it's like i've married my
mother
no
you're indulging your perspective
and you never get to see anyone beyond
your own perspective
and that's very confronting for someone
because if you've spent 10 20 30 40
years there's a carnage there might be
divorces there might be bankruptcies
built on
the illusion of control
and and then it's like then you start to
see like
i haven't been interacting with life
i've been interacting with my my my view
of it my judgment of it my opinion of it
and that's sometimes really challenging
for somebody's stomach
you've said that for you it was a
multiple year journey to um begin to
extricate yourself from that to begin to
make some forward momentum
how much of that was okay now i
recognize that i i am sort of the matrix
itself i have created this um illusion
to some extent but it's tied enough to
reality that i can reach out and touch
it and everything is sort of
reconfirming back to me um
once you realize that how did you begin
that work of
recrafting the narrative or or to you is
it it's not a recrafting of the
narrative it's it's a disillusionment of
all narrative um in totality like what
what is that next step
that's a great question no one's ever
asked me that question again so and i've
done a lot of these things so that's a
great question um
so ultimately what it comes down to is
see once you discover something right
and it's like a true discovery
it's a gestalt moment it's like it's
like you the black cat you're like oh
you know what
what am i in you know how did i because
you can see the tentacles
and you can see how it spread throughout
your life and you can see how
when you're being given by this thing
why you would take the pathway you would
take like i said earlier
suddenly i made sense
and when i can see the pathway
i don't even have to avoid the pathway
there's just no way i'm going down there
because i see the carnage i get what
this has done in my life right now i
don't blame myself i'm not in the world
of like are you ready and why didn't you
no we're all wired as human beings to
create our own reality
the only problem is we have no sense of
creating it
right there's no experience of like yeah
i'm putting this world together for
myself so that i can survive in life
your brain is putting the building
blocks together it's like yeah people
are this way yeah i'm this way yeah the
world is this way and so i'm just
building evidence for it
so
i would say that was really the first
time i started to get a sense of
an awareness of self
of a self right
and and and then then it kind of got
like
it really was this very kind of
existentialist
you know can i think going down with me
it was like
it was like who i knew myself as
wasn't really me anymore it was
it was who i'd become
but i started to explore this kind of
greater self like that that was there
but it was only a small part
and that became the big choice in life
like starting to see like i could pursue
all of those brain patterns and all of
those automatic behaviors i could pursue
that
or i could recognize when it's at play
and when i can recognize when
if you want to call it my default self i
believe that's what heidiger called it
your default self if i can recognize my
default self
i'm suddenly a choice
right like so if i use that example of
maybe my relationship to somebody my
passwords that they were controlling
i could notice all those patterns all
those triggers all those emotions
as only that patterns triggers and
emotions
and then i could start to explore life
and set them aside like i'm not going to
indulge them because it starts to show
up for me like a personal indulgence
like i'm checked out
i'm in my head i'm
you know whatever my thing has got me
hooked
um
but then somebody's a human being
there's like this growing sense of like
there's way more to me
that i had forgotten
and i've literally forgotten i'd
forgotten
that when i was a kid i was
so loving
as a kid i was like this huggy loving
little kid
and i'd become this [__] of a man
and that was my choice in many ways you
know it was like
oh yeah i can keep going with that and
single-minded
or i could just start giving a damn
and i could start getting interested in
other people and and the people in my
life and
and it exploded my life became
like a whole a playground for me to
explore my relationships with people and
and the thing that i loved about it most
was that they didn't have to do [__]
you know they didn't they just sit
around and be themselves and i would be
like oh this is me i'm going to try i'm
going i want to discover you from the
perspective of love like how
what's that i think you got to tell the
story of your mom this is such a
powerful moment and if you would touch
on the moment where you hadn't seen your
mom in two years and you show up at the
door um i thought the the sort of way
you said i
in the past i would have reacted one way
and now i just had this totally
different perspective right um i think
it's an amazing story
this perspective was
i'd seen that i'd created this dynamic
between my mom and i there was i had a
relationship with her but there was
always something in the middle
so it wasn't free
right
let me put it this way i wasn't free
when i was around her i had to be a
certain way
and the way that i was was disconnected
right like you're there i'm here
and what was in between us was all of
that narrative that i'd built up over
the years and in many ways
you know and i remember saying this to
myself as a teenager like 16 17 like
i've turned out as a victory over her
right this is my victory right not like
i've turned out
from what she
did and what she gave me i've actually
just turned out
you know as a as a reaction to all the
mistakes that she made
and so as a man when i started to do
this
this work i realized that
i'd spent most of my childhood in
judgment of her like how she was doing
with me and and mostly it was like a
scorecard you know i screwed that up now
you know how you screwed that oh yeah
you
so
i had this like case like if we went to
court i could have threw a bunch of
paperwork down and said
you know read that you know this is how
she messed me up and this is why i'm a
champion now because i've come
victorious and there's a big
conversation in society for that like
being victorious over something you made
up
right but but it's not they don't say
it's being victorious over something you
made up they say it's being victorious
over what they did to you right
it's what you made up about what they
did to you or satra would have said what
you made it mean so
i had this realization that that that
i'd really just blamed her and so uh
when it hit me like a ton of bricks and
i went through all the spaces blame
guilt full you know all that [__]
called it up
and i i used to call my mom my mom up
all the time then but we all never
thought about the weather and the
neighbors dog and stuff
and that was connection you know like i
was being connected
so i called it up and she said hello and
i just said you know i'm sorry that was
the first thing i said i said i'm sorry
and she's like for what
and i said i just never knew what it was
like for you
to raise the family almost on your own
and i just blamed you
i you know i've been judging you and i'm
you know i just want you know i'm just
really sorry for
making you wrong for all that you did
and didn't do
and there was a silence
and i said i love you and she said i
love you too baby
and i had in that moment like it was it
was like oh my gosh like the skies
opened up
because all of this that i'd been
holding back came out
right and i didn't even do it so that
she would do anything i did it because
this needed to be said this needed to
get out of the way i was starting to
realize how tight i'd become
that wasn't
and i wanted to be a loving man i just
didn't know how to do it and now i
remember even saying that to my wife you
know in my everyone at the time like i
don't really know how to do love which
is [__] everybody knows how to do
love you might have forgotten but you
need to get back touch with it
so from that moment i really started to
engage with from this loving place you
know like and she didn't have to do
anything i was just going to love her
and then and it wasn't like a test you
know if i love you would i get back like
kind of you know like like your aunt
does when she kisses you you know like
she's and she says she loves you she's
kind of waiting for you to say it too i
wasn't doing
so i had this business trip to
dublin actually in ireland and i was
there for a few days so i thought i'll
just take a quick flight over to glasgow
my hometown i'll go see my mom
so i took this early morning flight and
i get this car and i drive over there
and it's like 8 a.m and she lived in one
of those buildings you know you had to
press the button at the front to get in
and i thought well this is going to blow
the surprise because i'm pressing she'll
notice me but the postman had left the
door a little ajar so i was able to get
in the front door i go in
and i knock on her door it's like 8 30
on a monday morning you know and i'm
like this is going to be awesome i
haven't seen my mom in two years it's
gonna be amazing
and then so i knock on the door she
comes to the door
you know she looks at me and she goes
what do you want
right
that's so good
so i remember the time like the thought
was there like oh [__] this is where i
would usually get really pissed off like
see you don't care about me right
and i just laughed i was just like oh my
god that's what she does right that's
her thank you like she gets annoyed
right because i'm like showing up at our
door on a monday morning it's not like i
haven't seen you for two years it's like
i'm having my tea right now you know or
something
so i went in and we just had this
broadway conversation i hugged her i
said i love you and i and i really got
i'd spent my whole life waiting for
people to love me
and it was really my job to love people
like the way they are like it was the
whole
dynamic changed like i was i remember
like even my mom passed away earlier
this year
i remember i was over there last year
and i was hugging and she was like oh
girl get off me
and i just got that's her thing man it's
like that's where she's at
and i've spent so much of my life like
blaming where she's at for where i'm at
and when i took that off the table when
i took responsibility for being the guy
that i say i am
then suddenly people are free to be
themselves i don't need you to change
it's not i don't need you to say or do
something to make me feel different
i just need you to be whatever you say
you are
and then in that space
i get to explore
all the paradigms of of who i am
yeah dude the thing that makes that
story so heartwarming and useful is that
she didn't need to change there was
nothing that
her behavior didn't change that's why i
love the the moment where you come to
the door and you have this such a
different reaction than you would have
had you know in years prior and i
there's
you have the same skepticism for sort of
self-help that i have
and
because so often
people are promising sort of rainbows
and puppies and it doesn't play out like
that and the world is still messy and
it's still difficult and so hearing
how
she it wasn't like you guys have this
phone call and then everything is better
and you guys are you know you have this
easy relationship from from then on you
you still had to confront that moment at
the door but now you're able to laugh at
it and sort of
enjoy who she really was not need her to
be different not judge her for it
recognize that you're your own thing
that if you make different choices you
can get a different outcome um and that
she doesn't have any power over you that
you don't let her have
right it's just amazing i think that's
an important part of that and that is
um
and this was part of my great awakening
if you like and it was more like the
great punch in the mouth right it wasn't
like you know i get hit by a rainbow or
something it was like i got smacked
around the face and edge and i was like
this is terrible
at the beginning but
i had to question myself
with
what would it be like for me
to share my life with somebody who
wanted me to be different all the time
like what would that have been like what
would it be like to share life with
somebody who's just like i don't like
this about you i don't like that about
you i wish you were more that way and
less this way
it would have been exhausting and and
and and even then then then i started to
get a respect for her like and she held
in with me after all of that i'd spent
so much time just looking and observing
and judging what she was doing
i'd i'd forgotten to keep an eye on what
i was doing and and who i was becoming
yeah you you
quoted heidegger and you sort of
referenced it obliquely a minute ago
that
um freedom is overcoming the default
self
and right that to me is so powerful like
recognizing that
you use this analogy of a sponge right
so we're all like a sponge and you start
and you're flexible and you're
you're squishy and wonderful and then
over time all those things you pick up
it you dry out and they get trapped and
and that to me is such a great um way of
illustrating what the default self is
it isn't you intrinsically but it is
sort of the state of you as you have
accidentally become over time
and the ability to
not react just because that's sort of
the accidental way by which you have
become but to say one that's shapeable
and then two that even even sort of as
i'm in this hardened state that you can
transcend that um and realize that you
control your reactions that's really
really powerful there's something really
great about what you're saying because
see i i think your personality is little
more than a stumble
right you know if i stumble so like
you've kind of like fallen through life
and ended up this way right so it's kind
of like being your kind of work into the
next thing and then you've that
there's been no sense of creating
something you know like
i'm going to create myself at this part
so if you think about it like this kind
of unconscious stumble through life
and you're picking up pieces that you
have no sense that you've picked that up
right you don't you don't realize that
this you've just laid a foundation for
something that later in life is going to
kick your ass
right you don't realize that you're
doing this
and so i think when i think it does take
a little bit of time a little bit of
kind of fermentation i think it has to
kind of form itself
to me those are the times when it's ripe
for you to now do this work on you to
now be like okay
and it's funny because i i spoke to
someone recently about this and they
talked about midlife crisis
and i don't really see it like that i
don't see it as like an age thing i
think can happen in your 20s and nothing
can happen in your 60s
and but i'd describe a little
differently i think what you're
witnessing is this kind of bankruptcy of
your persona
like who you've come to know yourself as
no longer works right and
it's the same [__] and no matter how
hard you shake that tree
you're only ever getting one apple right
it's not bearing the fruits
and because your personal personality
has come together over time
to allow you to overcome life to win at
it if you like
but the problem is what you're
overcoming is what you've picked up and
you think you should overcome so you're
you're basically spending your life
waging a war against an illusion with a
persona
that is only designed to win that
illusion
but so you're not equipped for the rest
of life you're not equipped for that and
that's to me that's real personal growth
and development when you start to
understand that that little hard sponge
and what's at the core of it all
and then start to then the exploration
begins and then you can maybe start
engage with something close to the true
joy of life you know
to get out there and
and be someone you've never been before
i want to go deeper on that so it'd
be interesting to hear your take on what
the trajectory of your books has been um
i was surprised in a great way by your
most recent book where you're dealing
with
this the self-labeled fundamentals of
life i'm talking about love talking
about loss and grieving um and and the
way that i interpreted it was
your early books were sort of setting up
a world view a way to think about things
way to think about yourself and move
through the world how to you know
deconstruct the matrix and build it back
up
with something more useful and now this
book is hey all those things that i
taught you i'm going to show you how to
point it at these most important
powerful elements of life
and done in a really interesting way is
that fairly accurate to the intention
yeah so when i wrote my first book um
i mean you know you you pointed too
early you said just kind of
you've got this cannot
relationship to the self-help industry
that's
skeptical right i like that it's
skeptical and not cynical you know it's
it's skeptical it's like you know uh
let me question that about y'all the
cynicism is just you're just shutting
the door on it you know but so i love i
love the idea of being skeptical and i'm
and i'm very skeptical at the end about
the industry because i feel as if
i don't think it serves the people who
want it
right it's like philosophy right i mean
i love philosophy i'm i'm not a i'm not
a student of philosophy but i i dabble
right you know like i dabble in playing
the guitar
we were talking about earlier so
i dabble in philosophy but my problem
with philosophy is it's too interested
in itself
so it's kind of philosophy it's
fascinated with itself right it's a
subject matter it's like
oh yeah let's talk about schrodinger's
[__] car or something you know like
but how does that help me i just lost my
job you know like how do how does this
so um so
when i wrote my first book it was t it
was really like
and and a kind of rebellion against the
self-help and to see and you know it's
got a big curse word in the title and
you should you should tell people the
titles of your books i think
my first book was called unfuck yourself
and
when i wrote that book when i came up
with a title everybody that i spoke to
says change the title there was there
was as i like to call them the [__]
books there was one [__] book out at the
time right it was mark manson's book
and it wasn't really you know like
shaking the tweezer anything yet
and i and i thought
well that's what i want to call my blog
and people you know i've written it in
late 2015
and
my marketing people everybody's like no
it's a great title but don't deal with
it and i got it like you know you
couldn't advertise it on amazon you
couldn't post about it on facebook like
nothing no one would handle it there's
no way to get it out right
and at the time i had a coaching
business that was it it wasn't like i
had
you know
gazillion followers online or something
there's none of that
but i thought no i'm going to call it
what i want to call it that's how i talk
right that's that's my vernacular right
yeah
so so when i brought the book out
some people were very skeptical about it
like they were saying you are you know
this
it's just sensationalist it's been a lot
of books have come out with brilliant
titles and never sold more than six
copies right tyro is kind of interesting
but there has to be something in there
but what i was committed to do with that
booked on was packing
as much really useful
philosophy
communicated in a way that there was
plenty of room for you to think
right so it was like these big
i could make these statements but you
had to kind of dwell on it you'd be like
oh whoa let me think about that for a
minute right from the perspective of my
life
and so there's only i think 32 000 words
in that book
but there's like so much
philosophy in that book even i was
shocked that i managed to get it all in
there you know but
so
and again it's this kind of
phenomenological ontological
existential
perspective
but the book went crazy at
self-published that went like 30 000
copies in five months you know it just
spread it was like wildfire people were
like oh my gosh i love this book
and then so when i got my publisher my
publisher said
you know why don't
we do something long-term but you could
really
get to
create with people
this kind of bigger picture
and that's what we've done we've it's
really been like i'm
i'm filling in the gaps for people with
every book
but that every book you can stand alone
with a book
and on its own it's very valuable you
might never read another book of mine
but but if you do read all the books
you'll see how they all
come together and they do feed off each
other
and so this
book that's that's my next book that's
coming out it's called wise as [__]
and it's simple truths guide you through
the [__] storms of
and and again you know like
i want everybody to get some of the
brilliant philosophical ideas that exist
and what i want everybody to get them
and
and so in that way i speak to people in
the way that they talk and the way that
you and i would communicate it's not
wrapped up in a strategy or some you
know some scheme that i might have it
really is a simplistic
and powerful way of delivering
some of the great distinctions of
philosophy that the world has ever
produced
and and that they're accessible and
they're usable and and you can find a
way to kind of integrate them into your
life
and um
and i'm going to continue on that
pathway i've got a lot of things that i
want to touch on with people but this
this next piece is a really important
piece you know it's very important how
do you deal with loss you know how do
you deal with
fear you know or what is success as a
human being like what you know we're
it's like we should know how to handle
all that stuff but we don't we don't
know how to handle i mean when somebody
dies
i mean you know the best you can hope
for is that somebody gives you some
words out of a sympathy card that might
ring your bell for a few minutes and
calm you down you've talked about
confidence being an experience
yeah it's not something you don't you
aren't sort of permanently confident
it's just something that you experience
do you have a similar feeling around
grief
yeah and
if grief is but an experience
how are you placing it somewhere yeah
yeah i think look like all your
experiences in life you know um
as human beings
will become a little obsessed by the
idea of trapping certain experiences
that we like
and then trying to get rid of the ones
that we don't like
so
happiness is an experience okay so i
might somebody might present me with an
ice cream cone
and i'm like oh this is amazing i love
ice cream this is great
and then so that experience i'm like i
want to get that experience back clearly
the key
is ice cream
i need to do more ice cream so that i
can have this back and then i visit ice
cream 8 10 15 30 times
and i'm enjoying the experience of ice
cream but i'm noticing that i'm blowing
up like a balloon here
then i'm not enjoying this experience
now that's a terrible experience more
ice cream is clearly the answer now
that's obviously a very kind of playful
way of looking at this but in a very
simple way that's that is how we do life
we're in the pursuit of experiences
and we think those experiences are given
to us by
something around us we don't realize
that we are the architect the creator
and the vehicle in which all of this
gets expressed
so we look for love we look when we and
we literally say pursue happiness
like it's something out there that i can
get right
and again this notion that we can
somehow trap it with ourselves but
you'll notice your experience you might
love a human being you don't walk around
in this constant state
of love right because you're working and
you're working out and you're reading
and you watch tv and all the other stuff
you you have these moments
of experience and love
so when somebody experiences grief i say
you got to let yourself have it because
you're more like a conduit than anything
it arises
it's there
and if you don't resist it you don't try
and change it you don't try and make it
go away
it'll pass you'll get wrapped up in
something else and that is very much how
your brain works your brain works in
those very kind of like you know like
bits of string there's a beginning to
the string and an end to the string but
if you start messing with the middle of
the string you never get to the end it's
always just hanging about the same thing
so i want people to understand like
there's nothing wrong with a negative
experience there's nothing wrong with
that if you feel depressed or you
experience yourself with the press
that's right
right you experience yourself as well
there's nothing wrong with that right
and
you don't want to dwell in it and how we
dwell on it is by lamenting it or hating
it or wanting it to be different or
trying to change it or trying to fix it
right you
you learn to function in it
and you learn to
you started can explore life from that
place maybe if we talk about depression
if you explore life from the place of
depression
and you start to dare yourself a little
to get a little outside the bubble tiny
little bit all you need to get what are
actions that i could take that are more
aligned with what inspires me or what
i'm interested in
these little pieces
you can add them up you can start to
dance with life a little better than
maybe you would have done in the past
so these are all
legitimate
real experiences of being a human being
but the more you try and trap them
or the more you try and change them
the less you actually get the favorable
ones because it's all
chasing
when you sat down to write the book how
did you come up with the fundamentals
that you were going to approach is it
the ones that people sort of most
often are trying to trap
um
i'm curious how you selected the ones
that you went into
oh i
and if you would enumerate for people
what you consider the fundamentals
all right so
so for instance loss okay and loss is
one of the fundamentals that i talk
about in the book
we all experience loss when you talk
about lost human being though they
usually talk about somebody dying right
but but there's little
microcosms of loss
scattered throughout your day
right so you're
like
if you go to the store
looking for your favorite coconut water
and they don't have it
that's a loss for you what do i mean a
loss like there's a disappointment
right so you're kind of like ah that's
it's not a big deal you're like well
whatever you know
but as an example of like something you
had thought would be there or maybe even
expected to be there that's suddenly not
there
it could go all the way in your
relationship
when people get divorced for instance
um
there's a loss what's the loss the loss
of the future that i thought i had
that's a loss to me i thought i had that
it's not
some people are relieved
because they saw that future as being
very negative but other people are
crushed
so there's this idea in my head that
life and people should be a certain way
so loss was to me
such a big deal and and we don't know
how to deal with loss we don't we're not
and you have to learn how to deal with
law you have to and it's a process of
understanding yourself and understanding
what law says for you
um
but but this this notion of if i could
pick
things that i feel as if i had some
grasp of how to navigate these things
when they arise in my life
how much of a difference would that make
if i could if i knew how to navigate
loss
like you know it doesn't it doesn't
spare me from the experience
but i know there's a way that i can get
through this
and be my most empowered
so i knew that was a fundamental part
um another big one for me was success
because
especially western society
we're kind of fed this diet of what it
is and what it isn't and i wanted to
blow a bunch of that up
right like just and i think i even
started that part of the book off by
saying i'm i'm sick of success right but
not sick of like i'm so successful i'm
secular i'm just sick of
how it's getting presented to it
explain how how do you see it it being
presented to us and where does that
become sort of pathological
yeah so that it's
it's mostly presented to us
as things
right so it's mo success is things
so if i get my degree
that's a success
if i
if i you know
get that job that's a success that bank
balance that's a success this body
that's a success
like so it's kind of fed to is this
things
and it's amazing
when you talk to people
about their big accomplishments
and and for many people it's like this
these years long
kind of pursuit if you like of these
things like go to college right
if i'm
a lot of people like them get so much
built into that
and the experience in my head is
when i get my degree this will all be
better
now anybody who's got a degree i'll tell
you that got blew up for them the day
they picked up their freaking diploma
right they were like
that's it right
and that's very much how success is
portrayed for us as human beings is
something to get to
that when you get there it's not it and
it's never it
you know every time you get there you're
like ah i you know i used to be a
musician you can
i mean i still play but i'm not it's not
what i do
and my lifelong dream was to play the
whiskey of gogo in la like that was my
thing you know and so
back in the 90s i did it
and i headlined there right with my band
at the time
and it was like the biggest thing i'm
playing the whiskey tonight i can't
believe it
and then after the show i was in the
lowest of lows
because what i was left with is
that's it
like that's it
really all of that for this you know
like
11 songs and we're done you know
um so
i wanted to burst break that up a little
for people
and start to get them to
see success in a different way
and starting engage with life from a
more empowering context of success
and what success is for you
it really isn't something
it really isn't something you're aiming
for it's it's more like a location that
you're coming from
it's more like
it's more like an empowering
and and powerful context for the way
that you do things
rather than
you know the top of some mountain
somewhere that you feel as if eventually
be the answer but only to get there and
see there's another mountain reminds me
about love
this was this was one of the things in
the book that you tackle that i was like
i am very eager to talk about that you
talk a lot about unconditional love that
love sort of by its nature is
unconditional
um and i'd i'd love to hear your
thoughts on that because that hit me
intuitively
um as not being true but your
explanation
is very interesting
yeah
so
there is only unconditional love
that's the only kind of love that is
what happens when you you love somebody
and then they cheat on you
and you instantly realize yeah i gotta
get a divorce
that's not love anymore then that was it
so now i've got something called
resentment
so now that's not why
that would that strikes me before i read
your book that strikes me as something
that truly was just conditional and
thusly i went from
conditions were met for my love and then
conditions were violated and thus my
love disappeared
now now so like so like there's there
are certain like
there are there are certain
i mean you're going to call it
conditions but there's a world in which
i express my love okay
there's a world which expressed my love
now
when they when that person say and you
say they cheated on you which is a lie
right that never happened
they did you're gonna have to explain
that to people yeah yeah
so you are never cheated on
you've made about you
what they were doing was about them
right i mean they might even blame you
and say this was about you
but even that's about that
right so if i love you
and you do
something that i feel as if it's no
longer acceptable to me
that's on you
and i'm now choosing to take everything
all my expressions of love
somewhere else
there was no cheating on me why because
i'm now the victim to you when i'm
unwilling to put myself there as a human
being i will not put myself at the
effect of you
you make your own choices one of my
choices by the way
was to be in a relationship with you
and when you're in a relationship with
somebody you are exposing yourself
to the potentiality of someone doing
something like that
it would be foolish for you to think
that that's never gonna happen
it might may well not have
but it'd be foolish to think that's off
the table for you
you should know that that [__] is
potentially on the table
so therefore your own experience of
being alive the pathways that you take
you're having a big saying
so the notion of love
when you're fully expressive of your
love right and this i was able to write
a lot of this because of what i got from
my relationship with my mom
i really realized like
whatever she was gonna do was just what
she was gonna do and it was my choice to
love it or not
but if i started to say well if you do
that then i'm gonna be this way
then it's no longer fully fledged love
it's like a version in fact it's even
manipulative
like i love you but don't do that if you
do that i won't
you know what i mean like
so i had this real like
if i want to be a loving man i'm just
going to have to go for it
and and part of being
a loving human being is
what's also on the table
is something called disappointment
it's part of the deal you can't you know
you can't walk into starbucks and not
smell coffee
right you can't it's part of the deal
it's it'd be stupid to walk into
starbucks like oh my gosh it's that
smell like you know it's starbucks right
it's coffee
it's not you're not going to go in there
and be like oh i really thought it was
going to be like an oil refinery in here
right no it's starbucks
so loves like that
when you walk into love or rather when
you express love for a human being
you have to realize part of that is
disappointment
or you might even end up
resorting to anger or frustration
but that's only because at some level if
you look
there was something i mean i think i
think it was well i mean there's been
some great
um quotes about love roomie and you know
gandhi and like just what it truly is
i believe i want to say this is like a
japanese proverb but i can't i'm not
going to
put any money on it right but
um
when you truly love
you can never be hurt
and that's [__] hard to be with like
you're like whoa
what
but when you and and to me that kind of
love
is
you only ever only ever really hear
about it from like you know
monks or something like they'll love
another or they'll
they'll give their life for love
and to me that's the all-encompassing
nature of love and that as human beings
what we've done is we've brought these
things in
that focus it and filter it
and in many ways block it
and if you really want to have love in
your life you have to realize
you're not a receiver of that thing
you're the broadcaster
it's coming out of you
and you get to say
you get to be expressive of your love
with another or no
but if you're not being expressive of
your love for another
stop
leaning on the notion that it's them
and really accept that it's
this is me
and you know one of the things that i'm
about to do
and i'm really looking at this for for
one of my future books is
the notion of loving another
is your agreement with yourself
it's not your agreement with that
in fact when you're buying into the
notion of loving another
you gotta really relate to it like this
is what i'm up to as a human being
and i might choose to not love you you
might do things or say things that i
feel as if go against what i value you
as a human being
but i should also be cognizant of that
i could continue to love you
but i'm choosing not to
like i'm i'm now choosing this is that
undergoing another path therefore i'm
not in some world of like you cheated on
me i'm in a world of like this is who i
am this is what i value you're free to
be whatever way you are and i know this
sounds idealistic and i'll give it to
people in a way that's really usable
but that you're free to be who you are
but if there's a point in my life but
i'm just like i'm not a match for that
then i'm owning
my change of direction
i'm not going to blame it and i'm saying
i'm taking this somewhere else love in a
relationship is your opportunity to
express something not get something
and i and i
i love that i'm on the hook for the love
in my life
i really [__] do like i love it and i
love when i'm tested when i say i'm
tested i mean
my bullshit's tested you know
i love when it gets dasty because i'm
like oh i so want to just like oh you
right
but then i do i remind myself that i'm a
loving man i guess is who i am and and
i'm unwilling to change
or give up on the integrity of that
for some passing
emotional quirk
dude i love that
that that is uh the perfect place to tap
out where where can people find more
about you in broadcasting love and not
self sabotaging and becoming wise as
[__]
yeah so i mean obviously my books are
available everywhere you would find
uh books um i do all my own audio books
so if you want to certainly be somebody
mangled or half score you should have
medical accent
um you might want to give those a lesson
and you can find me on my website
gary john bishop.com but also you know
i'm active on twitter and i'm not very
active on instagram
and i'm and i'm even out there you know
with my new podcast which is out there
called unfuck nation
diana and it's it's not an interview
platform actually an opportunity for me
to just run
once a week just random people and run
to the world and
and and and give people you know what
i've got to the best of my ability in
such a way that it makes a difference
for them
i love it
dude thank you so much for coming on
this was so much fun i really enjoyed
your book um i'm sure other people will
the no [__] style is is a breath of
fresh air uh so thank you for all of
that
everybody if you haven't be sure to dive
into his world and speaking of things
that if you haven't done you should be
sure to subscribe here and until next
time my friends be legendary take care
all of the experiences that i've had or
all the experiences that you have your
idea of tom
is just this
vast collection of
narratives that you've constructed
around your own experiences
you